www.bowiestate.edu
Information Security Program
Program Overview # 1.0 Effective 11-2014 Email infosec@bowiestate.edu
Date
Version 1.1 Contact John Phone 301-860-3934
Husfield
BSU Policies Section VI :15.09; 15.10; 15.11; 15.12; 15.13; 15.14; 15.21; 15.22; 15.23; 15.24
Standards/Regulations Standards/Regulations Controls
Addressed
USM Security NIST 800-53 specific controls cited in specific rules and
Standards v3 procedures.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents ....................................................................................................................... 1
Summary ................................................................................................................................... 2
Management Support for Information Security ........................................................................... 3
Information Security Responsibilities .......................................................................................... 4
Information Sensitivity Classification .......................................................................................... 7
Access Controls ......................................................................................................................... 8
Password Management ............................................................................................................. 9
Privacy ......................................................................................................................................10
Third-Party Disclosures .............................................................................................................10
Acceptable Use Of The Internet ................................................................................................11
Establishing Network Connections ............................................................................................12
Third-Party Access ....................................................................................................................12
Encryption .................................................................................................................................13
Electronic Mail...........................................................................................................................13
Printing, Copying and Fax Transmission ...................................................................................14
Mobile Computing And Work At Home ......................................................................................14
Viruses, Malicious Software, And Change Control ....................................................................15
Personal Use Of Information Systems ......................................................................................16
Intellectual Property Rights .......................................................................................................16
Systems Development ..............................................................................................................17
Reporting Problems and Incidents ............................................................................................17
Exceptions ................................................................................................................................18
Violations ..................................................................................................................................18
References ...............................................................................................................................19
Related Documents ..................................................................................................................19
Approval and Ownership ...........................................................................................................19
Revision History ........................................................................................................................19
SUMMARY
Information systems provide a foundation of technology for Bowie State University (BSU)
business activity that utilizes university owned data. This program defines methods, rules,
procedures, and other requirements necessary for the secure and reliable operation of the BSU
information systems and network infrastructure. The standards for information security
contained in this document are best practice and are rooted in the University System of
Maryland (USM) Security Standards and the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. Legislative controls contained in FERPA, PIPA and Gramm
Leach Bliley laws are include as well.
Care was taken to communicate technical concepts in plain English, avoiding technical terms
and acronyms where possible. The document audience is all BSU employees and business
partners. Examples and details designed to illustrate why information security is important are
presented. We hope to encourage understanding and improve awareness the importance of
information security across the many groups of Users with varying degrees of education that
comprise the BSU family.
This document provides a definitive statement of information security policies and practices to
which all employees are expected to comply. It is intended to:
 Acquaint employees with information security risks and the expected ways to address
these risks.
 Clarify employee responsibilities and duties with respect to the protection of information
resources.
 Enable management and other employees to make appropriate decisions about
information security.
 Coordinate the efforts of different groups within the University so that information
resources are properly and consistently protected, regardless of their location, form, or
supporting technologies.
Everyone recognizes that a highway system and motor vehicles are essential to commerce.
People now appreciate how information systems made up of computers and networks are
another infrastructure essential to commerce. Just as every driver has a role to play in the
orderly and safe operation of the transportation infrastructure, there are information security
roles and duties for every employee at BSU. For example, it is a driver’s duty to report
accidents, and it is an employee’s duty to report information security problems. Just as car
manufacturers are required to provide safety belts with vehicles, system designers at BSU are
required to include necessary security measures such as user access restrictions based on job
function and the need to know.
This program defines baseline control measures in a program of information security everyone
who connects to the BSU network is expected to be familiar with and to consistently follow.
Sometimes called “standard of due care controls”, these security measures are the minimum
required to prevent a variety of problems including, but not limited to:
 theft
 fraud and embezzlement,
 research raiding and espionage,
 sabotage,
 errors and omissions,
 system unavailability, and
 loss of confidence and damage to reputation
The BSU Policies citations listed above define general University goals, expectations, and
responsibilities with regard to technology use. The BSU Policies and the DIT rules define the
minimum controls necessary to prevent legal problems such as allegations of negligence,
breach of fiduciary duty, or privacy violation. This document contains DIT rules that details both
reasonable and practical ways for all of us at BSU to avoid risk and prevent unnecessary
losses.
BSU critically depends on continued citizen confidence. This confidence has gradually
increased and is the result of many years of dedicated effort on the part of BSU students,
faculty, staff, and leadership. While confidence takes many years to earn, it can be rapidly lost
due to problems such as denial of service attacks that disrupt the educational process, system
outages that stop intra-university communication, or the theft of unsecured personally
identifiable information (PII) resulting in potential identity theft. The trust that the community we
serve has in the University is a competitive advantage that must be continuously nurtured and
grown. This information security initiative is designed to protect these efforts.
MANAGEMENT SUPPORT FOR INFORMATION SECURITY
Critical Business Function – Information is a foundation of higher education and research.
The information carried in the BSU network and information systems: the data, hardware,
software and people that use them are necessary for the performance of almost every essential
activity at the University. If there was a serious security problem with this information or
information systems, BSU could suffer serious consequences including loss of current and
prospective student enrollment, reduced revenues, and degraded reputation. As a result,
information security now must be a critical part of the BSU business environment.
Supporting Educational Mission and Business Objectives - This document outlines
information security requirements prepared to ensure that BSU is able to support further growth
of the University, and support a consistently high level of service to our constituents. The
document is also intended to support BSU’s reputation for providing high quality and affordable
educational opportunities for a diverse student population of Maryland citizens and the global
community through the effective and efficient management of its resources. Because the
prevention of security issues is considerably less expensive than correction and recovery, this
document will help reduce the overall cost of University operations.
Consistent Compliance Essential - A single unauthorized exception to information security
measures can jeopardize the entire university community, our business partners and even our
educational partners in the University of Maryland System (USM). The interconnected nature of
information systems requires that all employees observe a minimum level of security. This
document defines that minimum level of due care. In some cases, these requirements will
conflict with other objectives such as improved efficiency and minimized costs. Top
management has examined these trade-offs and has decided that the minimum requirements
defined in this document are appropriate for all employees at BSU. As a condition of continued
employment, all employees, contractors, consultants, and temporaries, must consistently
observe the requirements set forth in this document.
BSU Team Effort Required - The tools available in the information security field are relatively
unsophisticated. Many of the needed tasks cannot be achieved with products now on the
market. This means that users at BSU must step in and play an important role in the information
security. Information and information systems are distributed to the office desktop, and are used
in remote locations; the employee’s role has become an essential part of information security.
Information security is no longer the exclusive domain of the Division of Information Technology.
Information security is now a team effort requiring the participation of everyone who come into
contact with BSU information or information systems.
INFORMATION SECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES
Information Security Committee – The committee provides oversight and advice regarding
information systems security and privacy assurance for BSU. Committee members include
subject matter experts in information security and assurance. Members are designated by the
Division of Information Technology (DIT) Vice President/Chief Information Officer (CIO) to
provide advice for CIO specific responsibilities that include:
 The development, implementation, and maintenance of a University-wide strategic
information systems security plan.
 The development, implementation, and enforcement of University-wide information
systems security program and related recommended guidelines, operating procedures,
and technical standards.
 The process of handling requested program exceptions, advise the University
administration on related risk issues and recommend appropriate actions in support of
the University’s larger risk management programs.
 To ensure related compliance requirements are addressed, e.g., privacy, security, and
administrative regulations associated with University System of Maryland (USM),
Federal and Maryland laws.
 Ensure appropriate risk mitigation and control processes for security incidents.
Information Owners – The Division Vice President is or designates top-level managers in each
University area as the Owners of all types of information used for area business activities. Each
type of system information must have an Owner. When information Owners are not clearly
identified by appointment or organizational design, the Chief Information Officer must make a
temporary designation (until the area Vice President can appoint a designee). Information
Owners do not legally own information all university information belongs to the institution. They
are instead members of the BSU management team who make decisions on behalf of the
University. Information Owners or their delegates must make the following decisions and
perform the following activities:
 Formulate specific job function profiles that will be granted access to University
information.
 Determine the proper access based on job function profiles and determine the proper
use of university information.
 Approve information-oriented access and control privileges for specific job function
profile.
 Approve information-oriented access control requests that do not fall within the scope of
existing job function profiles.
 Select a data retention period for their information.
 Designate original sources for information.
 Employ special controls needed to protect information, such as additional input
validation checks at the data point of entry or indicate more frequent backup procedures.
 Define acceptable limits on the quality of their information, such as accuracy, timeliness,
and time from capture to usage.
 Approve all new and different uses of their information.
 Approve all new or substantially enhanced application systems that use their information
before these systems are moved into production operational status.
 Review reports about system intrusions and other events that are relevant to their
information.
 Review and correct current production uses of their information.
 Select a sensitivity classification category relevant to their information with consultation
of the BSU General Counsel, and review classifications every five years.
 Select a criticality category relevant to their information with consultation of the
Enterprise IT Security Department so that appropriate safeguards and contingency
planning can be performed.
Information Owners must designate an alternative person to act if they are absent or
unavailable. Owners may not delegate ownership responsibilities to third-party organizations
such as outsourcing organizations, or to any individual who is not a full-time BSU employee.
When both the Owner and the back-up alternative Owner are unavailable, the Department
Manager who ordinarily supervises the handling of information may make immediate Owner
decisions (and seek the Information Owners subsequent approval).
Data Stewards (aka Application User Coordinators) are Employee’s Immediate Manager –
Information Stewards must make the following decisions and perform the following activities:
 Review and correct security reports that indicate those users who currently have access
to university information within their department.
 Authorize new users to access university information and de-authorize users who no
longer fit a job function profile.
 Supervise department employee use of university information under their control.
The employee’s immediate manager is the Data Steward who must approve a request for
system access based on existing job function profiles. If a job function profile does not exist, it is
the manager’s responsibility to create the function profile, obtain the approval of relevant
Owners, and inform the Enterprise IT Security Department.
When an employee leaves BSU, it is the responsibility of the employee’s immediate manager to
promptly inform the Enterprise IT Security Department that the privileges associated with the
employee’s user ID must be revoked. User IDs are specific to individuals, and must not be
reassigned to, or used by, others.
Data Custodians - Custodians are DIT information technology specialists: database
administrators; system administrators; and functional analysts who physically or logically access
information and administer information systems. Like Owners, Custodians are specifically
designated for different types of information. In many cases, a manager in DIT will act as the
Custodian. If a Custodian is not clear, based on existing information systems operational
arrangements, then the Chief Information Officer will designate a temporary DIT Custodian.
Custodians follow the instructions of Owners, operate systems on behalf of Owners, but also
serve users authorized by Owners. Custodians must define the technical options, such as
systems criticality categories, and permit Owners to select the appropriate option for their
information. Custodians also define information systems architectures and provide technical
consulting to Owners so that information systems can be built and run to best meet the
University Mission. If requested, Custodians additionally provide reports to Owners about
information system operations and information security problems. Custodians are responsible
for safeguarding the information in their possession, including implementing access control
systems to prevent inappropriate disclosure, and developing, documenting, and testing
information systems contingency plans.
Information Users –
There are two types of Users:
General Users are not specifically designated, but are broadly defined as any person who
accesses the BSU network.
Departmental Data Users are employees or contractors and consultants with access to internal
information or internal information systems.
All Users are required to follow all security requirements defined by Owners, implemented by
Data Stewards and Custodians, or established by the Enterprise IT Security Department. All
Users must familiarize themselves with, and act in accordance with, BSU information security
requirements. Users also must complete information security awareness training. Users must
request access from their immediate manager, and report all suspicious activity and security
problems.
Enterprise IT Security Department - The Enterprise IT Security Department is the central
point of contact for all information security matters at BSU. Acting as internal technical and
policy consultants, it is this department’s responsibility to create workable information security
compromises that take into consideration the needs of Users, Custodians, and Owners, while
supporting the University Strategic Plan and Mission. Reflecting these compromises, fulfilling
goals set by USM Security Standards and BSU Policy, this department defines specific
information security standards, procedures and controls for the University. Enterprise IT
Security Department must:
 Perform access control administration activities,
 Monitor the security of BSU information systems,
 Provide information security training and awareness programs to BSU employees.
The department is responsible for providing management with reports about the current state of
information security at BSU. In this regard, Enterprise IT Security Department conducts an
annual risk analysis and remediation report.
While information systems contingency planning is the responsibility of information Custodians,
the Enterprise IT Security Department must provide technical consulting assistance related to
emergency response procedures and disaster recovery. The Enterprise IT Security Department
is also responsible for organizing a computer incident response team to promptly respond to
virus infections, system break-ins, system outages, and similar information security problems.
INFORMATION SENSITIVITY CLASSIFICATION
Reasons For Classification - As a member of the University System of Maryland (USM) and a
state university, BSU takes seriously its commitment to respect and protect the privacy of its
students, alumni, faculty and staff, as well as to protect the confidentiality of information
important to the University's academic mission. BSU classifies its information assets into
categories for the purpose of determining who is allowed to access the information and what
security precautions must be taken to protect it against unauthorized access.
To assist in the appropriate handling of information, a sensitivity classification hierarchy must be
used throughout BSU. This hierarchy provides a shorthand way of referring to sensitivity, and
can be used to simplify information security decisions and minimize information security costs.
One important intention of a sensitivity classification system is to provide consistent handling of
the information, no matter what form it takes, where it goes, or who possesses it. For this
reason, it is important to maintain the labels reflecting sensitivity classification categories. BSU
uses four sensitivity classification categories:
Public - This information has been specifically approved for public release by Public
Relations department or Marketing Department Managers. Unauthorized disclosure of
this information will not cause problems for BSU, its customers, or its business partners.
Examples are marketing brochures, material posted to the BSU web page and BSU
departmental phone numbers.
Internal - This information is not approved for public release. Unauthorized disclosure of
this information to outsiders may affect University interests. Examples are employee
office phone numbers, email addresses and office manuals. This type of information is
already widely distributed within BSU, or it could be distributed within the organization
without advance permission from the information Owner.
Confidential - This information is sensitive intended for use within BSU, and in some
cases within affiliated organizations, such as BSU partners. Unauthorized disclosure of
this information to outsiders may be against laws and regulations, or may cause
problems for BSU, its customers, or its business partners.
Restricted - This information is sensitive private or otherwise sensitive in nature and
must be restricted to those with a legitimate business need for access. Unauthorized
disclosure of this information to people without a business need for access may be
against laws and regulations, or may cause significant problems for BSU, its customers,
or its partners. Decisions about the provision of access to this information must be
cleared through the information Owner. Examples are customer transaction account
information (may be protected by GBLA) and employee performance evaluation records,
student information (may be protected by FERPA), acquisition plans, and legal
information protected by attorney-client privilege.
Default Category - If information is not marked with one of these categories it should be
considered Confidential. Information that falls into the Confidential or Restricted, categories is
designated Sensitive.
Labeling - The Owner or creator of information must designate an appropriate label, and the
user or recipient of this information must consistently maintain an assigned label. Labels for
sensitive information must be used in the subject field of electronic mail messages or paper
memos. Labels for sensitive information must appear on the outside of floppy disks, magnetic
tape reels, CD-ROMs, audiocassettes, and other storage media. If a storage volume such as a
disk contains information with multiple classifications, the most sensitive category should appear
on the outside label. Likewise, when creating a collection of information from sources with
various classifications, the collection must be classified at the highest sensitivity level of the
source information.
Handling Instructions - All users must observe the requirements for handling information
based on its sensitivity. For more information on these definitions, see the BSU Data
Classification Quick Reference Table. Owners may designate additional controls to further
restrict access to, or to further protect university information under their control.
ACCESS CONTROLS
Network Access Philosophy – The BSU network is a system of hardware components:
computing devices, routing devices, switching devices, fiber optic and copper cables, etc. that
transmit all types of information in the form of data bits. BSU must protect this equipment and
the information it transmits by limiting access to the network to users who have been trained in,
and agree to, its proper use. The training required for network access is information security
awareness training approved by the IT Enterprise Security Department. BSU Policy recognition
is also required before network access is granted.
Network Access Approval Process – The Human Resources Department (HR) must initiate
the network access control approval process for all new employees. These steps are required
for network access:
1. HR determines that a new employee has been hired by a department and notifies DIT
(including the IT Enterprise Security Department).
2. The new employee is given a BSU email account. DIT assigns the standard basic
information security awareness training based upon position/role. Additional training may
be assigned by the information data steward, the new employee manager, or data owner
based on specific employee role information sensitivity. (Ask Enterprise IT Security to
assign the additional training).
3. Upon completion of awareness training by the new employee, DIT grants the proper
network access, which remain in effect until the employee leaves BSU.
Information Access Philosophy - Access to “Public” information is not restricted with access
controls that discriminate by specific user. For example, “Public” information is available on the
BSU web site, and “Internal” information is available on the BSU intranet. Access to
“Confidential” and/or “Restricted” information must be granted only when a legitimate business
need has been demonstrated and job function profile access has been approved in advance by
the information Owner. Access to special hardware and software must be restricted based on
business need and job function profile. Restricted information is available on a very limited
basis.
Information Access Approval Process - An employee’s manager must initiate the access
control approval process, and the privileges granted remain in effect until the employee’s job
function profile changes or the employee leaves BSU. If either of these two events occur, the
manager must notify the PeopleSoft Enterprise Security Analyst in the Functional Support Team
and Enterprise IT Security Departments immediately. All non-employees, contractors,
consultants, temporaries, and outsourcing organizations must be authorized in the same
manner. When the project is complete or when the non-employees stops working with BSU, the
Department Manager must inform the PeopleSoft Enterprise Functional Support and Enterprise
IT Security Departments must immediately revoke the privileges of these non-employees. The
relevant data steward or manager must review the need for the continuing privileges of non-
employees every three months.
Departures From BSU - When a user leaves BSU, all system privileges and access to BSU
information must cease immediately. For example, departed users must not be permitted to
continue to access the BSU network. At this point, all BSU information disclosed to users must
be returned. For example, contact lists must remain with BSU. All work done by users for BSU
is BSU property, and it too must remain with BSU when users depart. For example, a computer
program component written by a member of the PeopleSoft Applications department while
employed by BSU is BSU property and must remain with BSU.
Unique User IDs - Each user must be assigned their own unique user ID. This user ID follows
an individual as they move through the University. It must be permanently decommissioned
when a user leaves BSU. Re-use of user IDs is not permitted. Every BSU user ID and related
password is intended for the exclusive use of a specific individual. While user IDs can be shared
in electronic mail messages and in other places, passwords must never be shared with anyone.
Information systems technicians have all the privileges they need to do their job, and must
never obtain a user’s password. User IDs are linked to specific people, and are not associated
with computer terminals, departments, or job titles. With the exception of Internet pages, intranet
pages, and other places where anonymous interaction is both generally understood and
expected, anonymous and guest user IDs are not permitted unless approved in advance by the
Enterprise IT Security Department.
Privilege Deactivation - After a period of no activity defined in minutes by the Enterprise IT
Security Department, online sessions with multi-user machines must be terminated
automatically. Users must be sure to log-off from multi-user computers when they leave their
desks for any more than a few minutes. Dormant user IDs on multi-user computers that have no
any activity for a period defined in weeks by the Enterprise IT Security Department must have
their privileges automatically revoked. Users of multi-user machines should not leave files on
these machines as they may be deleted at any time.
User Authentication - All production information system user IDs must have a linked password
or a stronger mechanism such as a dynamic password token, to ensure that only the authorized
user is able to utilize the user ID. Users are responsible for all activity that takes place with their
user ID and password or other authentication mechanism. A user must change their password
immediately if they suspect that it has been discovered or used by another person. Users must
notify the Enterprise IT Security Department if other access control mechanisms are broken or if
they suspect that these mechanisms have been compromised
PASSWORD MANAGEMENT
Choosing Passwords - Users must choose difficult-to-guess passwords. Fixed passwords
must not be found in the dictionary and must not be a reflection of the user’s personal life. All
fixed passwords must be at least eight characters, and this minimum length must be enforced
automatically where systems support it. Users must choose fixed passwords that include both
alphabetic and numeric characters.
Changing Passwords - User-chosen fixed passwords must not be reused or recycled. Where
systems support it, fixed passwords must be required to change every 120 days and passwords
must be changed the first time they are used. If a user suspects that somebody else may know
his or her password, the password must be changed immediately. The DIT Help Desk will not
reset user passwords unless the user can establish their identity. Presenting a valid government
ID and BSU ID is sufficient proof of identity.
Protecting Passwords - Users must not share a fixed password with anyone, including
managers, support technicians, and co-employees. Authorized mechanisms to share
information such as local BSU network server shared directories, BSU electronic mail, or BSU
intranet pages. Passwords must not be stored in any computer files, logon scripts or computer
programs, unless the passwords have been encrypted. Passwords must not be written down
unless a transformation process has concealed them, or they are physically secured, such as
placed in a locked file cabinet. All default passwords set by the hardware or software vendor
must be changed before the involved system can be used for BSU business activities.
A management tool enforces these rules - it is transparent to the end user.
PRIVACY
Expectations Of Privacy - Users must have no expectation of privacy when using university
information systems. To manage systems and enforce security, BSU may log, review, and
otherwise utilize any information stored on or passing through its systems. BSU may capture
user activity such as telephone numbers dialed and web sites visited.
Information Privacy - A wide variety of parties have entrusted their information to BSU for
business purposes, and all employees at BSU must do their best to safeguard the privacy and
security of this information. Student and patient as well as employee account data is Sensitive
(Confidential or Restricted) and access must be strictly limited based on business need for such
access. Private information must not be released without advance written authorization of the
individual.
An important exception to this rule is that human life must always be preserved.
Laws may provide other exceptions: Teachers, health care providers, emergency responders,
and law enforcement are examples of job function profiles exempted in certain circumstances.
One example of a business purpose is a faculty member’s need to access a student academic
record in order to provide informed counseling to the student.
THIRD-PARTY DISCLOSURES
Preauthorization For Public Statements - All employees who will be delivering or otherwise
disclosing official information about BSU must obtain preauthorization from the University
Relations department. Only designated individuals are authorized to be spokespersons for BSU.
Unless an employee is one of these designated spokespersons, all inquiries from the media
must be directed to University Relations.
BSU Non-Disclosure Agreements - whenever communications with third parties necessitate
the release of sensitive BSU information, a standard non-disclosure agreement (NDA) must be
signed by the third party. Information released to these third parties must be limited to the topics
directly related to the involved project or business relationship, and the disclosure must be
approved in advance by the involved information Owner.
Third-Party Non-Disclosure Agreements - In some instances, before discussions can be
commenced, third parties must require that employees at BSU sign their non-disclosure
agreements (NDAs). Recipients of third party NDAs must forward these agreements to the BSU
General Counsel for review and approval.
ACCEPTABLE USE OF THE INTERNET
Not A Fringe Benefit - Internet access and electronic mail is provided as tools to students and
employees for university business, scholarly activity, and academic research purposes.
Information Reliability - All information acquired from the Internet must be considered suspect
until confirmed by separate information from a reliable source. Users must not rely on the
alleged identity of a correspondent through outside email or the Internet. The identity of a
person or organization is confirmed through authoritative methods such as digital certificates
granted by third party verification or digital signatures. More information can be obtained from
the Enterprise IT Security Department.
Downloading Software - Users must not install software from the Internet unless specifically
authorized to do so by the Information Systems or Enterprise IT Security Department. Users
may download data files from the Internet, but must check these files for viruses before using
them. Copyright laws must be respected when downloading files.
Sending Security Parameters - Users must not send any sensitive parameters such as credit
card numbers, telephone calling card numbers, fixed passwords, or account numbers through
the Internet unless the connection is encrypted end-to-end.
International Transfer Of Data - The movement of private or research information such as
human resources records or sensitive research across international borders in some countries
is illegal. Before transferring any private or sensitive research information across a border, users
must check with the BSU General Counsel to ensure that laws are not violated.
Setting Up Extra Services - The establishment of any connection to the BSU network with a
third party is forbidden unless the Enterprise IT Security Department has approved the controls
associated with this connection. The establishment of electronic data interchange and other
electronic business system arrangements is prohibited unless approved by both Enterprise IT
Security Department and Information Systems Department.
Information Security Reports - All users in receipt of information about system vulnerabilities
must forward this information to the Enterprise IT Security Department, which will determine
what action is appropriate. Users must not redistribute system vulnerability information.
ESTABLISHING NETWORK CONNECTIONS
Connection Approval Required - BSU computers or networks may be connected to third-party
computers or networks only after the Enterprise IT Security Department has determined that the
combined systems will be in compliance with BSU security requirements. Real-time connections
between two or more in-house BSU computer systems must not be established unless
Information Security has determined that such connections will not jeopardize the information
security of sensitive data.
Personal Computer Connections - Employees must not connect their own computers with
BSU computers or networks without prior authorization from DIT. Personally- owned systems
must not be used to process any BSU information unless the systems have been approved for
use by Information Security.
New Installations - Employees and vendors working for BSU must not make arrangements for,
or actually complete, the installation of voice or data lines with any carrier unless they have
obtained written approval from the Director of the Office of Telecommunications.
Firewalls Required - All connections between BSU internal networks and the Internet or any
other publicly accessible computer network must include an approved firewall or related access
control system. The privileges permitted through this firewall or related access control system
must be based on business needs and must be defined in an access control standard issued by
the Enterprise IT Security Department (documentation available from the department).
THIRD PARTY ACCESS
Written Approval Required - Before third party users are permitted to reach BSU internal
systems through real-time computer connections, specific written approval of the Enterprise IT
Security Department Manager must be obtained. These third parties include information
providers such as outsourcing organizations, business partners, contractors, and consultants
working on special projects.
Access Restrictions - Third-party information system vendors must be given only in-bound
connection privileges when the DIT Systems Manager determines that they have a legitimate
business need. These privileges must be enabled only for the time period required to
accomplish previously defined and approved tasks. Third-party vendor access that will last
longer than one day must be approved by the Enterprise IT Security Department.
Only Public Information Posted - Unless the relevant information Owner has approved in
advance, employees must not place anything other than BSU public information in a directory,
on a server, or in any other location where unknown parties could readily access it.
Third Party Security Requirements - As a condition of gaining access to the BSU computer
network, every third party must secure its own connected systems in a manner consistent with
BSU requirements. BSU must reserve the right to audit the security measures in effect on third
party-connected systems without prior warning. BSU also must reserve the right to immediately
terminate network connections with all third-party systems not meeting such requirements.
ENCRYPTION
Default Protection Not Provided - The Internet and other public networks are not protected
from wiretapping by default. In all but a few rare instances, if information is to be protected, then
the user must take specific action to enable encryption facilities. Users who employ cellular or
mobile phones must not store or discuss Sensitive (Confidential or Restricted) information
unless they have taken steps to encrypt the information. Video conferences must not involve
discussion of sensitive information unless encryption facilities are known to be enabled.
When To Use Encryption - Whenever confidential information is sent over a public computer
network like the Internet, encryption methods authorized by the Enterprise IT Security
Department must be used to protect it. Whenever confidential information is stored in a
computer, this storage must be with similar authorized encryption methods. For more
information about these circumstances, “Data Classification Quick Reference Table.”
Key Selection - Many encryption routines require that the user provide a seed or a key as
input. Users must protect these security parameters from unauthorized disclosure, just as they
would protect passwords from unauthorized disclosure. Rules for choosing strong seeds or keys
must follow all rules for choosing strong passwords.
ELECTRONIC MAIL
Sharing And Forwarding - Electronic mail accounts, like user IDs, are for specific individuals
and must not be shared. If a user goes on vacation or is otherwise unable to check their mail for
extended periods, mail can be forwarded to another BSU employee. Out-of-office notices can
be established that will automatically inform correspondents that the recipient will not be
responding for a certain period of time.
Within the BSU network (e.g. @bowiestate.edu to @bowiestate.edu); if an electronic mail
message contains sensitive information, users must not forward it to another BSU recipient
unless the other recipient is known to be authorized to view the information.
Never send an electronic mail message containing sensitive information outside the BSU
network without end-to-end encryption.
Contents Of Messages - Users must not use profanity, obscenities, or derogatory remarks in
any electronic mail messages. Such remarks may create legal problems such as trade libel and
defamation of character. Special caution is warranted because backup and archival copies of
electronic mail made by both BSU and third parties may actually be more permanent and more
readily accessible than traditional paper communications.
Harassing Or Offensive Messages - BSU information systems must not be used for the
exercise of a user’s right to free speech. Sexual, ethnic, and racial harassment, including
unwanted telephone calls, electronic mail, and internal mail, is strictly prohibited. Users must not
respond directly to the originator of offensive electronic mail messages, telephone calls, or other
communications. Harassment of any type is strictly prohibited. Employees must report these
types of communications to their manager, the Human Resources and/or the Enterprise IT
Security Department.
PRINTING, COPYING AND FAX TRANSMISSION
Destruction Of Waste Copies - If a printer, copier, or fax machine jams or malfunctions when
printing Sensitive or Confidential information, the involved users must not leave the machine
until all copies of the sensitive information are removed or are no longer legible. All paper copies
of sensitive information must be disposed of by shredding or other methods approved by the
Enterprise IT Security Department.
Faxing Precautions - Sensitive materials must not be faxed unless an authorized staff member
is on-hand at the time of transmission to properly handle the materials at the receiving BSU site.
Sensitive information must not be faxed through untrusted intermediaries such as hotel staff or
rented mailbox service staff. Confidential information may be faxed by Internet only if the
connection is protected with encryption systems approved by the Enterprise IT Security
Department. All faxes must employ a standard cover page that includes language approved by
the BSU General Counsel. Third-party signatures on contracts, purchase orders, and similar
legal documents sent by fax must always be followed-up with an exchange of originals.
Printer Precautions - When printing sensitive information, the user must be present at the
printer at the time of printing to prevent the information from being revealed to unauthorized
parties, or direct the output to a printer inside an area where only authorized employees are
permitted.
Copy Machine Precautions - Unless permission from the copyright Owner is obtained, making
multiple copies of material from magazines, journals, newsletters, and other publications is
forbidden unless this is both reasonable and customary. Many copy machines contain hard
drives capable of storing information. In departments that handle sensitive information copy
machine hard drives must be purged of all data before the machine leaves the department.
Leasing and Repair Services - Only third-party vendors who have signed a BSU non-
disclosure agreement can perform the repair of fax machines, printers, and copy machines.
Third-party vendors of machines that contain storage devices e.g. copy machines or printers
with hard drives must agree to purge the storage device of all university information before it is
removed from the department.
MOBILE COMPUTING AND WORK AT HOME
Approval For Remote Access - Remote access to BSU computers must be granted only to
those users who have a demonstrable business need for such access. Permission to access
BSU computers remotely is granted by and annually reviewed by a user’s manager. All remote
users must attend a special class before remote access privileges are granted or annually
renewed.
Location Independence - All security requirements apply at remote locations. Sensitive
information stored on computing devices or on paper must be kept in a secure manner.
Access Control Packages - All portable and remote computers that are under the control of
BSU employees and that are used to process BSU business information must be protected with
a DIT access control package approved by the Enterprise IT Security Department. These
access control packages must prevent unauthorized use of the machines and unauthorized
access to BSU information. The access control packages must prevent virus infections and
other types of damage from malicious software.
Handling Of Sensitive Information - Sensitive (Confidential or Restricted) information must
not leave BSU offices. If it is necessary to remove computer-readable sensitive information from
BSU offices, this information must be protected with encryption facilities provided by DIT and
approved by Information Security. If sensitive information is transmitted over public computer
networks such as the Internet, this transmission must take place with encryption facilities
approved by Information Security. All portable and remote systems storing sensitive BSU
information must also employ hard disk encryption systems.
Theft Of Equipment - If BSU information systems equipment is not stored in a locked area,
users must employ anti-theft equipment such as locking cables to secure BSU equipment.
Users must not store passwords, user IDs, or any other access information in portable or
remote systems.
Travel Considerations – Travelers are often the target of theft. When traveling Users must
employ anti-theft techniques. Store equipment in a secure area such as a locked room or auto
trunk. If a secure area is not available, employ locking cables to secure BSU equipment. Users
must also be careful not to discuss sensitive information when in public places like hotel lobbies,
restaurants, and elevators. Viewing sensitive information on a computer screen or hardcopy
report is prohibited when a user is in a public place such as seated on an airplane. Users must
be careful not to provide sensitive information in voice mail messages or pager messages.
VIRUSES, MALICIOUS SOFTWARE, AND CHANGE CONTROL
Virus Checking Required - Virus-checking systems provided by DIT and approved by the
Enterprise IT Security Department must be in place on all personal computers with operating
systems susceptible to viruses, on all firewalls with external network connections, and on all
electronic mail servers. All files coming from external sources must be checked before usage. If
encryption or data compression has been used, these processes must be reversed before the
virus-checking process takes place. Users must not turn off or disable virus-checking systems.
If A Virus/Malware Infection Is Detected - If users obtain infection alerts, they must
immediately disconnect from all networks and cease further use of the affected computer, and
call the Help Desk for technical assistance. Users must not remove viruses or malware on their
own. If users believe they may have been the victims of other malicious software, they must
immediately call the Help Desk to minimize the damage. User possession or development of
viruses or other malicious software is prohibited.
Change Control - Users must not install new or upgrade operating systems or application
software on BSU business computing devices. These computing devices have been specifically
recognized as systems used for regular university business activities. This approach permits
DIT to perform automatic software distribution, automatic software license management,
automated remote backup and related functions on a centralized and coordinated basis. While
change control will be maintained through the above-mentioned access control packages, users
can, however, change the personal preferences of software packages e.g. change fonts for a
word processing package, organize email messages folders, etc.
Academic Research - Research that involves development of viruses or other malicious
software must not be conducted on computing machines that are connected to the BSU
business network. Research that requires the modification of the operating system or
application software must not be conducted on computing machines that are connected to the
BSU business network. These types of research are both legitimate and important scholarly
work that like all research must be conducted in a controlled environment. It is important that
this type of research be:
1. Registered and approved in writing by the BSU Provost, and
2. that the IT Enterprise Security Department is informed in writing, and
3. that the research is conducted in an environment that is separated from the BSU
business network.
PERSONAL USE OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Personal Use - All user activity is subject to logging and subsequent analysis. Users must not
perform any activity on BSU information systems that could damage the reputation of BSU.
Such conduct could lead to disciplinary action up to revocation of network access privileges and
termination of employment.
Testing Prohibition - Users must not test or attempt to compromise any information security
mechanism unless specifically authorized to do so by the Enterprise IT Security Department.
Users must not possess software or other tools that are designed to compromise information
security. (See registered Academic Research exception above.)
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
Legal Ownership - With the exception of material clearly owned by third parties, BSU is the
legal Owner of all business information stored on or passing through in its systems. Unless the
BSU General Counsel has signed a specific written agreement, all business-related information
developed while a user is employed by BSU is the property of the University.
Making Copies Of Software - Users must not make copies of or use software unless they
know that the copies are in keeping with the vendor’s license to BSU. If a system that is used to
process BSU information has been set up by the Information Systems department, users can
rely on the fact that all software on this system is licensed and authorized. Questions about
licensing must be directed to DIT, which maintains documentation reflecting software licenses
throughout BSU. Making regular backups of software for contingency planning purposes is
permissible. DIT must remove all software that is not authorized on systems that are used to
process BSU information.
Information Labeling - In addition to maintaining the labels mentioned in “Information
Sensitivity Classification,” users must maintain information about source, date, and usage
restrictions for all information provided by third parties. These labels will be important for
management decision-making purposes, and will demonstrate that BSU observed appropriate
copyright and other intellectual property laws. Users must assume that all materials on the
Internet are copyrighted unless specific notice states otherwise.
SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT
Production System Definition - Information systems that have been designated production
systems have special security requirements. A production system is a system that is regularly
used to process information critical to BSU business. Although a production system may be
physically situated anywhere, the production system designation is assigned by the Enterprise
Systems Manager.
Special Production System Requirements - All software developed in-house that runs on
production systems must be developed according to a recognized development methodology
(SDM). This methodology must ensure that the software will be adequately documented and
tested before it is used for critical BSU information. The SDM also must ensure that production
systems include adequate control measures. Production systems also must have designated
Owners and Custodians for the critical information they process. IT Enterprise Security must
perform periodic risk assessment of production systems to determine whether the controls
employed are adequate. All production systems must have an access control system to restrict
who can access the system and restrict the privileges available to these users. A designated
systems administrator who is not a regular user on the system must be assigned to control
access for all production systems.
Separation between Production, Development, and Test Systems - Where resources
permit, there must be a separation between the production, development, and test
environments. All security fixes provided by software vendors must go through the systems
development methodology testing process, and must be promptly installed. DIT Enterprise
Systems, Enterprise Application and Functional Support Departments must follow formal and
documented change control processes to restrict and approve changes to production systems.
All application program-based access paths other than the approved user access paths must be
deleted or disabled before software is moved into production. This documentation must be
preserved for audit inspection.
User Programming - Users must not write production computer programs unless specifically
authorized by the Chief Information Officer. The construction of spreadsheet formulas,
automatic execution scripts that are run when a system is booted, or databases is not
considered programming for purposes of this document. Both users and programmers must be
careful never to embed user IDs, readable passwords, encryption keys, or other security
parameters in any file. (See registered Academic Research exception above.)
REPORTING PROBLEMS AND INCIDENTS
What To Report - All employees must promptly report to the Enterprise IT Security Department
any loss of, or severe damage to, their hardware or software. Employees must report all
suspected compromises to BSU information and systems. All information security vulnerabilities
known to exist must be reported. All instances of suspected disclosure of Sensitive or
Confidential information also must be reported to the Enterprise IT Security Department for
incident investigation.
How To Report – A hotline has been established to handle information security problem
reports. Callers to the hotline can leave messages on this line anonymously: 1-877-FRAUD-11
(1-877-372-8311). Reports must not be sent by electronic mail, unless encrypted. Please use
the paper form located here: http://www.bowiestate.edu/it/enterprise-security/security-
forms/incident-reporting/
All reports will be documented, investigated and submitted to the area Vice President for
consideration.
EXCEPTIONS
Risk Acceptance - In some rare cases, the business case for non-compliance can be
established. In all such cases, the non-compliance situation must be approved in advance
through a risk acceptance process. This process requires a risk acceptance memo signed by a
Department Manager, reviewed IT Enterprise Security, IT Information Systems and approved by
the area Vice President and the DIT VP/CIO. Further details on the risk acceptance process can
be obtained through Enterprise IT Security Department.
Further Information - Questions about this DIT rules document should be directed to:
 Enterprise IT Security Department Manager at infosec@bowiestate.edu.
 University Policy information can be found in the BSU General Counsel’s web site:
http://www.bowiestate.edu/gc/university-policies/
VIOLATIONS
Any violation of BSU Policies concerning Information Security may result in disciplinary action,
up to and including termination of employment. BSU is obligated to notify the appropriate law
enforcement authorities of any unlawful activity and to cooperate in any investigation of such
activity. BSU does not consider conduct in violation of an information security rule to be within
an employee’s or partner’s course and scope of employment, or the direct consequence of the
discharge of the employee’s or business partner’s duties. Accordingly, to the extent permitted by
law, BSU reserves the right not to defend or pay any damages awarded against employees or
business partners that result from violation of this rule or any BSU Policy it enables.
Any employee or business partner who is requested to undertake an activity which he or she
believes is in violation of this rule, must provide a written or verbal complaint to his or her
manager, any other manager, the Human Resources Department, or the Enterprise IT Security
Department as soon as possible.
REFERENCES
University System of Maryland (USM) Security Standards v3
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) SP 800-37; SP 800-30; SP 800-53, NIST
SP 800-63.
RELATED DOCUMENTS
International Standards Organization (ISO) 27000 Series.
APPROVAL AND OWNERSHIP
Created By Title Date Signature
John Husfield Info Assurance Analyst 10-2014 JCH
Approved By Title Date Signature
IT Security Committee Information Security 11-2014 SM, JH, MW, WR
E Wayne Rose BSU VP/CIO 11-2014
REVISION HISTORY
Version Revision Date Review Date Description
1.1 July 2015