Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
Information Security Policy
1.0 Common Policy Elements
1.1 Purpose and Scope
Information is a valuable asset that must be protected from unauthorized disclosure,
modification, use or destruction. Prudent steps must be taken to ensure that its
confidentiality, integrity and availability are not compromised.
This document provides a uniform set of information security policies for using the
City of Pensacola’s (hereafter referred to as “the City” or “City”) technology
resources.
In addition to defining roles and responsibilities, information security policies
increase users’ awareness of the potential risks associated with access to and use of
technology resources. Employee awareness through dissemination of these polices
helps accelerate the development of new application systems and ensure the
consistent implementation of controls for information systems.
City information security policies are based upon the internationally accepted ISO
27002.2005 information security standard framework. The standards are designed to
comply with applicable laws and regulations such as the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). The standards will be considered minimum
requirements for providing a secure environment for developing, implementing and
supporting information technology and systems.
1.2 Enforcement
These policies must be adhered to by all City departments, divisions and enterprises
(hereafter referred to as “departments”) unless specifically granted an exception.
Individual departments may develop more detailed procedures to handle department-
specific cases, provided they adhere to the policies that they support.
This policy will guide annual security reviews by Technology Resources, as well as
audits by a designated third party as requested by City Administration. Violators of
these policies may be subject to employee disciplinary procedures as described in the
City’s Human Resources Policies. Departments and divisions may impose sanctions
upon their employees, within accepted City guidelines, for violations of these
standards.
Page 1 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
1.3 Exceptions
Exceptions to this policy must be approved by the Technology Resource
Administrator with a review by the City Administrator. In each case, the department
or vendor must include such items as the need for the exception, the scope and extent
of the exception, the safeguards to be implemented to mitigate risks, specific
timeframe for the exception, organization requesting the exception, and the
management approval. If approved, exceptions will be documented and added to this
Security Policy as an addendum.
Page 2 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
2.0 Information Security
2.1 Policy
2.1.1 Information Security Commitment Statement
2.1.1.1 Information is a valuable City asset and must be protected from unauthorized
disclosure, modification, or destruction. Prudent information security policies
and procedures must be implemented to ensure that the integrity, confidentiality
and availability of City information are not compromised.
2.1.2 Security Responsibility, Review and Evaluation
2.1.2.1 Technology Resources is responsible for establishing and managing the security
of all systems. Technology Resources will as needed but at a minimum on an
annual basis review the most current best practices regarding the use of
technology and will amend and/or issue new policies, procedures, and/or controls
to reflect the most appropriate solution for security of City information.
2.1.3 User Responsibility
2.1.3.1 City technology resources are provided to authorized users to facilitate the
efficient and effective performance of their duties in a secure electronic
environment. The use of such resources imposes certain responsibilities and
obligations on users and is subject to all applicable City policies. It is the
responsibility of every user to ensure that such resources are not misused and to
adhere to all City security policies and procedures, which are located in the
Technology Resources section of the City’s Intranet website.
Page 3 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
3.0 Risk Assessment and Treatment
3.1 Assessing Security Risks
3.1.1 Risk Assessments
3.1.1.1 Risk assessments will be performed annually to address changes in the security
requirements and in the risk situation, e.g. in the assets, threats, vulnerabilities,
impacts, the risk evaluation, and when significant changes occur.
3.1.1.2 Risk assessments will be undertaken in a methodical manner capable of
producing comparable and reproducible results.
3.1.1.3 Risk assessments will have a clearly defined scope in order to be effective.
3.1.1.4 The outcome of a risk assessment will be a report defining and prioritizing risks,
based on vulnerabilities and impact to City information.
Page 4 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
4.0 Organizational Security
4.1 Information Security Infrastructure
4.1.1 Management Commitment to Information Security
4.1.1.1 City management is fully committed to actively supporting security within the
organization through clear direction, demonstrated commitment, explicit
assignment, acknowledgment of information security responsibilities, and the
support of a Technology Governance Committee developed to provide
Governance for all Information Technology policies and procedures.
4.1.1.2 The Technology Governance Committee will be comprised of appointed City
leaders and will meet, at a minimum, on a quarterly basis. The committee will:
 review and approve information security policy;
 provide clear direction and visible management support for security
initiatives;
 approve the resources needed for information security;
 approve assignment of specific roles and responsibilities for information
security across the City;
 approve plans and programs to maintain information security awareness;
and
 ensure that the implementation of information security controls is co-
coordinated across the City.
4.1.2 Information Security Co-ordination / Allocation of Information Security
Responsibilities
4.1.2.1 The Technology Resources Administrator will be the focal point for all
technology security related matters.
4.1.2.2 When required, departments will designate a security liaison to serve as the
primary point of contact to the Technology Resources Administrator.
4.1.2.3 Departments will implement additional procedures as necessary to meet City
security requirements.
4.1.3 Independent Review of Information Security
4.1.3.1 The City’s approach to managing information security and its implementation
(i.e., control objectives, controls, policies, processes, and procedures for
information security) will be reviewed on an annual basis.
Page 5 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
4.1.3.2 Such a review will be carried out both internally and by individuals independent
of the area under review such as a third party organization specializing in such
reviews. Individuals carrying out these reviews must have the appropriate skills
and experience and be approved by the Technology Governance Committee.
4.1.3.3 The results of the independent review will be recorded and reported to the
Technology Governance Committee. If the independent review identifies that
the organization’s approach and implementation to managing information
security is inadequate or not compliant with the direction for information security
stated in this document, corrective actions will be defined and implemented.
4.2 Security of Third Party Access
4.2.1 Identification of Risks from Third-Party Access
4.2.1.1 All prospective third-party agents will be provided with a copy of the City’s
Information Security Policies, must verify in writing acceptance of said polices,
and will be required at all times to comply with said policies.
4.2.1.2 When third-party agents have access to City-owned technology resources, they
must observe the same standards as City employees and agree to abide by and
sign both the Vendor Security Management Policy and the City’s Acceptable Use
Policy.
4.2.1.3 When third-party agents are working in a City environment without being
directly supervised, City employees must be vigilant about logging off sessions,
logging out or securing PC access, and keeping paper information properly
discreet.
4.2.1.4 Stringent controls must be applied to user accounts using remote login access.
Where the third-party access will involve a network-to-network connection, the
use of a firewall, access logging and systems monitoring is mandated.
4.2.1.5 Network connection ports will be constantly monitored for unknown devices and
unauthorized connections.
4.2.1.6 Technology Resources will, on an annual basis, review all required third-party
agreements and audit external systems.
Page 6 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
5.0 Asset Classification and Control
5.1 Accountability for Assets
5.1.1 Ownership of Assets
5.1.1.1 All information and assets associated with information processing will be owned
by a designated City staff member. The asset owner will be responsible for:
 ensuring that information and assets associated with information
processing facilities are appropriately classified; and
 defining, providing, and annually reviewing access restrictions and
classifications, taking into account applicable access control policies.
5.1.1.2 Routine tasks may be delegated, e.g., to a custodian looking after the asset on a
daily basis, but the ultimate responsibility remains with the owner.
5.1.1.3 Technology Resources will maintain a knowledge base of information assets
information and perform annual reviews of all access privileges.
5.1.2 Acceptable Use of Assets
5.1.2.1 City information technology resources are provided to authorized users to
facilitate the efficient and effective performance of their duties. The use of such
resources imposes certain responsibilities and obligations on users and is subject
to City policies. It is the responsibility of each user to understand and abide by
the City’s Technology Acceptable Use Policy and to ensure that such resources
are not misused.
5.1.2.2 Departments may establish more stringent procedures consistent with this
document. However, all additional policies or procedures must be approved by
the Technology Resource Administrator and the Technology Governance
Committee.
5.1.2.3 The City reserves the right to retrieve and read any data composed, transmitted or
received through online connections and/or stored on City equipment.
Page 7 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
5.2 Data Classification
5.2.1 Data Classification Guidelines
5.2.1.1 All City information and information entrusted to the City from outside agencies
falls into one of three sensitivity classifications:
 CONFIDENTIAL – This category includes protected health
information (PHI) as defined by HIPAA, and similar information. Access
to confidential information must be tightly controlled based on need to
know. Except as specifically allowed by HIPAA and other federal and
state laws, disclosure to other parties is not allowed, and may result in
significant civil and criminal penalties.
 RESTRICTED – This is the default classification for any information
not specifically designated. Disclosure of restricted information could
cause harm to the general health, safety and welfare of affected parties.
This information will be disclosed to third parties only if reviewed by the
appropriate body and, if approved for disclosure, a confidentiality or
non-disclosure agreement has been signed.
 PUBLIC – Examples include any data deemed applicable under the
Florida Sunshine Laws. This information has been explicitly approved by
the City as suitable for public dissemination.
5.2.1.2 The ownership and classification of data will be determined by the applicable
department director or administrator in conjunction with the Technology
Resources Administrator.
Page 8 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
6.0 Human Resources Security
6.1 Prior to Employment
6.1.1 Screening / Terms of Employment
6.1.1.1 Background checks will be conducted on all City employees, contractors, and
vendors when access to sensitive information dictates.
6.2 During Employment
6.2.1 Management Responsibilities
6.2.1.1 All managers must attend annual security policy and review training.
6.2.1.2 Management will require employees and third party users to apply security in
accordance with the City’s Information Security Policies and Procedures.
6.2.1.3 Management responsibilities will include ensuring that employees and third party
users:
 Are properly briefed on their information security responsibilities prior
to being granted access to sensitive information or systems;
 Are required to fulfill the security policies of the City;
 Achieve a level of awareness on security relevant to their roles and
responsibilities within the City;
 Provide necessary proof of security compliance and sign appropriate
verifications;
 Comply with the terms and conditions of employment, which includes
the City’s information security policy and acceptable use policy
6.2.2 Information Security Education and Training
6.2.2.1 All employees will be required to complete annual training on information
security awareness and concepts.
6.2.2.2 All employees will practice security awareness and remain vigilant against
fraudulent activities.
6.2.2.3 All employees will immediately report incidents involving any City accounts to
their direct supervisor or the Technology Resource Administrator.
6.2.2.4 All employees are required to report any incidents, concerns, or suspicious
activities to their direct supervisor, Human Resources, or the Technology
Resource Administrator.
Page 9 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
6.2.2.5 Users will note and report observed or suspected security weaknesses to systems
and services directly to the Technology Resource Administrator. Users will not
try to emulate the security breach or attempt to prove the threat as a test. Vendors
and contractors who provide services to the City must agree to follow the
applicable information security procedures of the department for which they
work.
6.2.3 Disciplinary Process
6.2.3.1 A formal disciplinary process, as defined in the City’s HR Manual, will be
followed to deter and discipline employees or third party agents who violate the
City Information Security Policies and Standards.
6.3 Termination or Change of Employment
6.3.1 Termination Responsibilities
6.3.1.1 Responsibilities for performing employment termination or change of
employment are defined in the City’s HR Manual.
6.3.1.2 Human Resources is responsible for the overall termination process and will
coordinate with the manager of the person terminating and Technology
Resources to manage the security aspects of the relevant procedures.
6.3.2 Return of Assets
6.3.2.1 All employees, contractors, and third party users must return all of the City’s
assets in their possession upon termination of their employment, contract, or
agreement.
6.3.2.2 In cases where an employee or third party user has knowledge that is important to
ongoing operations, that information will be documented and transferred to the
City.
6.3.3 Removal of Access Rights
6.3.3.1 The access rights of all employees and third party users to information and
information processing facilities must be removed upon termination of their
employment, contract, or agreement, or adjusted as necessary upon any change in
employment.
Page 10 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
7.0 Physical and Environmental Security
7.1 Secure Areas
7.1.1 Physical Security Perimeter
7.1.1.1 A security assessment of all key information processing facilities will be
performed annually to assess their physical security and a report submitted to the
Technology Governance Committee.
7.1.2 Physical Entry Controls
7.1.2.1 Access to any City data center, network operations center, or telecommunications
or other similar information processing facility will be restricted and physically
controlled.
7.1.2.2 Access to any office, computer room, or work area that contains confidential
information will be physically restricted.
7.2 Equipment Security
7.2.1 Equipment Location and Protection
7.2.1.1 Production systems, including, but not limited to servers, network equipment,
and telephony systems will be located within a physically-secured area.
7.2.1.2 Appropriate precautions including removing or encrypting sensitive or
confidential data will be taken when sending equipment offsite for maintenance.
7.2.2 Secure Disposal or Re-use of Equipment
7.2.2.1 Prior to approved disposal, media (floppy disks, CD’s, DVD’s, tapes, etc.)
containing confidential information must be destroyed to render the information
unrecoverable.
7.2.2.2 All hardcopy materials that contain confidential information must be shredded.
7.2.3 Removal of Property
7.2.3.1 The use of any City-owned equipment outside of the City premises must be
authorized by department management.
Page 11 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
8.0 Communications and Operations Management
8.1 Media Handling
8.1.1 Management of Removable Media
8.1.1.1 If no longer required and not under public records requirements, the contents of
any re-usable media that are to be removed from the organization will be made
unrecoverable.
8.1.1.2 Where necessary authorization will be required for media removed from the City
and a record of such removals will be kept in order to maintain an audit trail.
8.1.1.3 All media will be stored in a safe, secure environment, in accordance with
manufacturers’ specifications.
8.1.2 Disposal of Media
8.1.2.1 When media is worn, damaged or otherwise no longer required, it will be
disposed of in a secure manner. To prevent the compromise of confidential
information through careless or inadequate disposal of computer media, formal
procedures will be established for secure media disposal.
8.2 Access to Systems
8.2.1 Publicly-Accessible Systems
8.2.1.1 The dissemination methods for City information classified as public will have, at
a minimum, protection from unauthorized modification and denial of service
attacks.
8.2.1.2 Consideration of security controls that will be applied to publicly-available
systems will include the following:
 Information to be disseminated is classified in compliance with data
protection legislation
 Confidential information must be protected during the collection process
and when stored
 Access to the public system does not allow unauthorized access to
networks to which it is connected.
 City information classified as other than public will not reside on
systems where public information is being served.
 Information to be made available to restricted groups, such as employees,
will be protected by appropriate security mechanisms.
Page 12 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
9.0 Access Control
9.1 Business Requirement for Access Control
9.1.1 Access Control Policy
9.1.1.1 All confidential information will be protected via access controls to ensure that it
is not improperly disclosed, modified, deleted, or rendered unavailable.
9.1.1.2 Access control procedures will control access based on the need to know.
9.1.1.3 A supervisor and/or manager will initiate the access approval process, and the
privileges granted will remain in effect only until the employee’s job function
changes or the employee leaves the employment of the City.
9.1.1.4 All production information possessed by or used by a particular City unit will
have a designated owner who is responsible for determining appropriate
sensitivity classifications and criticality ratings, making decisions about who can
access the information, and ensuring that appropriate controls are utilized in the
storage, handling, distribution, and regular usage of information.
9.1.1.5 The authority to grant access to City information will be provided in writing,
only by the owner of the information or their designate.
9.1.1.6 Default access privileges will be set to “deny-all” prior to any specific
permissions being granted.
9.1.1.7 Unless it has specifically been classified as public, all City information will be
protected from disclosure. If non-public information is compromised or
suspected of being compromised, the information owner and the appropriate
security administration will be notified immediately.
9.2 User Access Management
9.2.1 Access Authorization
9.2.1.1 User IDs may be granted to specific users only when approved in advance by the
user's management.
9.2.1.2 Prior to being granted to users, application system privileges will be approved by
the involved application system owner.
9.2.1.3 Without specific written approval from the user’s management, administrators
will not grant system privileges to any user.
Page 13 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
9.2.2 Clear Desk and Screen Policy
9.2.2.1 Departments that process confidential information will consider adopting a clear
desk policy for paper and removal storage media and a clear screen policy, in
order to minimize the risks of unauthorized access to and loss of such
information, both during and after normal working hours.
9.2.2.2 PCs that access or use confidential data will be protected by password-protected
screensavers when unattended.
9.2.2.3 Sensitive or confidential information will be removed from printers and facsimile
machines immediately upon printing.
9.2.2.4 The use of power-on passwords will be required where the PC or any device that
contains confidential information.
Page 14 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
10.0 Information Security Incident Management
10.1 Reporting Information Security Events and Weaknesses
10.1.1 Reporting Security Incidents
10.1.1.1 Any suspected or observed breaches of confidential or restricted information
must be reported to the Technology Resource Administrator, appropriate
supervisor, or Human Resources immediately.
10.2 Management of Information Security Incidents and Improvements
10.2.1 Responsibilities and Processes
10.2.1.1 It is the responsibility of all management staff to be familiar with the Technology
Resource incident management process.
10.2.2 Collection of Evidence / Learning from Incidents
10.2.2.1 All collection and presentation of evidence will be in compliance with the
Technology Resource incident management process.
10.2.2.2 The information gained from the evaluation of information security incidents will
be used to identify recurring or high impact incidents.
Page 15 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
11.0 Compliance
11.1 Compliance with Legal Requirements
11.1.1 Identification of Compliance Areas
11.1.1.1 Technology Resources has been assigned responsibility for the establishment of
city-wide information security policies. However, each department is
responsible for developing its own specific procedures necessary to ensure
operational compliance with City, state and federal requirements, such as
HIPAA.
11.1.1.2 The information processing resources of the City are provided for the business
purposes of the City.
11.1.1.3 Compliance with data protection legislation (e.g., HIPAA Privacy and Security
Rules) requires appropriate management control. The owner of such data is
responsible for ensuring awareness of the data protection requirements defined in
the relevant legislation.
11.2 Compliance with Security Policies and Standards, and Technical
Compliance
11.2.1 Identification of Compliance Areas
11.2.1.1 City information systems will submit to regular reviews of technical security
audits. These reviews will be performed annually to measure compliance with
existing security implementation standards. Technical compliance evaluations are
based on performing various types of tests and examining configurations.
11.2.1.2 Compliance testing will identify weaknesses subject to exploitation, and qualify
results as to the nature of criticality. Technical evaluations will be done in
cooperation with operations personnel to avoid impact on productions
environments.
11.2.1.3 The handling of results and data obtained in such evaluations will be handled as
confidential information.
Page 16 of 17
Technology Resources Policies and Procedures
12.0 Revision History
Standard Number Author Revision Date Revision Content
Page 17 of 17