IT Security Policy
Purpose and Context
The purpose of the IT Security Policy is to ensure business continuity and to minimise
operational damage by reducing the opportunity for and impact of security incidents.
Scope
This Policy applies to all IT-related systems, hardware, services, facilities, and processes
owned or otherwise made available by the University of Huddersfield or on its behalf,
whether utilising the University’s network and servers or those provided through cloud-
based environments. This policy includes, for the avoidance of doubt any personally
owned devices that are used in connection with University activities (together, IT
Systems). This policy applies to all users and administrators of IT Systems, inclusive of
University staff, students, affiliates, and third-party providers.
1. Introduction
1.1. The threats we face
The University is facing increasing security threats from a wide range of sources.
Systems and networks may be the target of a variety of attacks, including computer-
based fraud, data theft, surveillance or vandalism. Such threats to IT security are
generally expected to become more widespread, more ambitious and increasingly
sophisticated.
Because of increasing dependence on IT systems and services, the University is
becoming more vulnerable to security threats. The growth of networking, cloud
services and mobile devices presents new opportunities for unauthorised access to
computer systems or data and reduces the scope for central, specialised control of IT
facilities.
In addition, legislation exists which places legal requirements on the University to
protect personal privacy and to ensure the confidentiality and security of information
and that its use is within the law. The pertinent legislation includes the Data
Protection Act 2018, the Copyright, Designs and Patent Act 1988, The Regulation of
Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) 2000, the Computer Misuse Act 1990 and the
Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015 (which encompasses the ‘Prevent’ duty).
This Policy contains terms relating to the classification of data. There are three
classifications: sensitive, confidential and general. Direction on which types of
information fall into the different categories is set out in the IT Security Procedure
Manual (see below).
IT Security Policy v8
This Policy should be read in conjunction with the following University documents:
• Data Protection Policy
• Computing Regulations
• Research Integrity and Ethics Policy
• Retention and Disposal Schedule
• Using your own device Policy
• Guidance on Managing Emails
1.2. IT Security Procedure Manual
This Policy is supported by the IT Security Procedure Manual, which contains detailed
guidance and operational procedures to help to ensure that users and administrators
of the University’s IT systems do so in compliance with this Policy.
2. Compliance
The University’s Regulations Governing the Use of Computing Facilities set out the
responsibilities of anyone using University IT Systems and are included in the Student
Handbook of Regulations. This Policy supports and expands the provisions in the
University’s Regulations Governing the Use of Computing Facilities.
3. Information Handling
3.1. Classification of information
An inventory will be maintained of all the University’s major corporate IT assets and
the ownership of each asset will be clearly stated. Within the inventory, the
information processed by each IT asset will be classified according to sensitivity.
3.2. Precautions against hardware, software, or data loss
All IT equipment must be safeguarded appropriately, especially when left unattended.
Files downloaded from the internet carry a risk and should only be downloaded from
trusted sites and scanned with an anti-virus product. Email poses a significant threat
and files attached to and links within email must be treated with caution to safeguard
against email-based attacks which seek to harvest personal information and deliver
malicious code including ransomware that can lead to the encryption of important
business data. Spam and Phishing emails received should be reported using the
‘report message’ feature in Outlook. IT users have a duty to check the address of the
recipient each time an email is sent to reduce the chance of accidental data loss
through email.
University systems prevent the automatic forwarding of email from University
accounts. Individuals must avoid sending confidential and sensitive business
information from University mailboxes to personal email accounts as these accounts
are likely to reside in Countries without UK equivalent data protection laws and are
therefore inappropriate for certain classifications of University data.
The use of USB storage devices is a common cause of compromise through
infections from computer viruses, malware and spyware and should be avoided. USB
storage devices which are not from a trusted source must not be attached to a
University computer. Files on trusted USB storage devices must be scanned with an
2
IT Security Policy v8
anti-virus product before use or transfer to University systems and network drives.
3.3. Disposal of equipment
When permanently disposing of equipment containing all types of storage media,
including but not limited to hard disk drives, backup tapes and USB removable media
all sensitive or confidential data and licensed software should be irretrievably deleted
during the disposal process. Damaged storage devices containing sensitive or
confidential data will undergo assessment to determine if the device should be
destroyed, repaired or discarded. Such devices will remain the property of the
University and only be removed from site with the permission of the information asset
owner. Secure disposal verification certificates should be sought for media which has
contained sensitive and confidential data.
3.4. Working practices
The University advocates a clear screen policy particularly when employees are
absent from their workspace and outside normal working hours. Employees must log
out or lock their workstations when not in use. Screens on which sensitive or
confidential information is processed or viewed should be fitted with a privacy filter or
be sited in such a way that they cannot be viewed by unauthorised persons. This
applies to both fixed desktops, laptops and mobile devices. Additionally, screens
should be positioned so that they are not easily visible through external windows.
Whilst sharing screens on video conferencing and collaboration platforms additional
care should be taken to ensure sensitive information cannot be viewed by
unauthorised persons.
Wherever possible computer applications should be closed before permitting remote
access to IT support colleagues undertaking support and maintenance. Individuals
must ensure that any screenshots provided to initiate a support ticket or aid with
troubleshooting a problem do not contain sensitive and confidential data.
3.5. Off-site removal and cloud storage of data
Removal off-site of the University’s sensitive or confidential information either in print
or held on any type of computer storage medium, including tablets, phones or USB
drives whether owned by the University or not, should be authorised by the relevant
Dean or Director and only in accordance with the University Data Protection Policy.
Cloud storage introduces complexities relating to where data is stored and this is
often in Countries without UK equivalent data protection laws. Sensitive or
confidential information must not be kept in a cloud storage service which is not
approved by the University. Due diligence must be undertaken to assess the risk to
sensitive and confidential data before being uploaded to cloud-based storage and
systems.
Cloud storage applications such as Google Drive, Dropbox, and Apple iCloud Drive
must not be installed on to University computers. Such applications can
systematically synchronise data bi-directionally between computing devices and cloud
storage. University technical teams will take steps to remove unapproved cloud
storage applications from University computing devices.
3
IT Security Policy v8
3.6. Backup and recovery
Backups of the University’s information assets and the ability to recover them are
important priorities. Information owners must ensure that system backup and
recovery procedures are in place and that these are routinely tested. Backup copies
of data must be protected throughout their lifecycle from accidental or malicious
alteration and destruction, particularly against the threat of ransomware for which
offline, air-gapped, immutable backup technologies provide the strongest safeguards.
Access to data backups and supporting infrastructure must be restricted to those
persons who are authorised to perform systems administration or management
functions. All system managers must ensure that safeguards are in place to protect
the integrity of information during the recovery and restoration of datafiles, especially
where such files may replace files that are more recent.
3.7. Archiving
The archiving of information must take place with due consideration for legal,
regulatory and business issues, with liaison as needed between IT staff, records
managers and data owners, and in keeping with the University’s Retention and
Disposal Schedule. Storage media used for the archiving of information must be
appropriate to its expected longevity. The format in which the data is stored must
also be carefully considered, especially where proprietary formats are involved.
3.8. Information lifecycle management
All users of information systems must manage the creation, storage, amendment,
copying and deletion or destruction of data files in a manner which safeguards and
protects the confidentiality, integrity and availability of such files and in line with the
University’s Retention and Disposal Schedule. Day to day data storage must ensure
that current information is readily available to authorised users. Any archives created
must be accessible in case of need.
3.9. Sensitive or confidential information
Sensitive or confidential data may only be transferred across networks, or copied to
other media, when the confidentiality and integrity of the data can be reasonably
assured and in accordance with the University Data Protection Policy. As a minimum
this data must be encrypted in transit and while stored. Sensitive or confidential data
should not be entered into third-party hosted (also known as “cloud”) systems unless
they are approved by the University for that purpose.
Sensitive or confidential data should only be accessed from University owned
equipment in secure locations and files must never be printed on a networked printer
that does not have adequate protection or security. The Using Your Own Device
Policy describes the secure use of non-University owned equipment.
3.10. Use of electronic communication systems
The University advocates the use of modern communications methods over email to
share information, as described in the Guidance on Managing Emails document.
Teams, OneDrive and SharePoint provide greater security through granular access
rights management and the ability to revoke access to shared information.
4
IT Security Policy v8
The identity of online recipients, such as email addresses and fax numbers should be
checked carefully prior to dispatch, especially where the information content is
sensitive or confidential. Verifying the correct document has been attached to an
email prior to sending will reduce the opportunity for sensitive data loss via email. In
most cases an email and its attachments cannot be revoked once sent externally.
Sensitive or confidential information should only be sent to external recipients via
email where modern methods described above are not possible and must be
encrypted or protected by a password.
Information received electronically must be treated with care due to its inherent
information security risks. Files received from external persons should be scanned
for possible viruses or other malicious code.
3.11. Additional data protection declaration requirement
Where a role requires access to specific business systems that contain sensitive
personal or financial information, individuals may be required to sign a data protection
declaration before they are sanctioned to carry out these duties.
Line managers will make staff aware if they are required to do this and line managers
will oversee the process within their School or department.
3.12. Generative artificial intelligence (AI)
The input of sensitive or confidential data, including passwords into generative AI
systems should be avoided as information entered may be stored, shared with other
users and used to train the system. Where there is a business need to enter any form
of sensitive data into AI then only a University approved system must be used. It is
the responsibility of those using generative AI systems to ensure that the system they
use is approved and that the system is being used in a protected state.
4. Mobile and Remote Computing
4.1. Authorisation
Those remotely accessing information systems, data or services containing sensitive
or confidential information must be authorised to do so by an appropriate authority,
usually the line manager.
4.2. Use of computing equipment off-campus
Irrespective of ownership, computers or other devices should only be used off-
campus for University related activities if adequate security controls are in place.
Where sensitive or confidential information is being stored or accessed from off-
campus, an approved access solution, such as UniDesktop, should be used as data
then remains within University systems.
Where staff owned computers are used sensitive or confidential information must not
be stored on the device unless approved by the University. The member of staff
concerned should take steps to ensure other users of the equipment cannot view or
access University information. Staff are responsible for ensuring all devices adhere to
the highest levels of security as defined in the Using Your Own Device (UYOD)
Policy. As per the UYOD Policy, University staff must not use OneDrive client on
personally owned devices to access University accounts as this systematically
5
IT Security Policy v8
synchronises all University data to that device, instead, documents residing in
OneDrive should be accessed only via a browser.
Any loss or theft of University equipment or personal equipment which has been used
to access sensitive University data must be reported at the earliest opportunity.
Multifactor authentication (MFA) will be enforced on access to University systems
when being used from off-campus. This validates the account holder and reduces the
risks relating to weak, shared or compromised passwords.
Public Wi-Fi connections, such as those in hotels and coffee shops, may not be
secure and should be avoided. It is trivial for someone to set up a fake Wi-Fi access
point with a trusted name to encourage connections which they can then use to view
your internet traffic or gain access to your device. Verify the Wi-Fi network with the
venue before connecting. If you are unsure of the security of any wired or wireless
network, then you should not use it.
4.3. Travelling
Portable computing or storage devices are vulnerable to theft, loss or unauthorised
access when travelling and information stored on them should be kept to a minimum.
Approved mobile device management software must be installed and activated on
University owned mobile and portable devices at all times. All devices, including
portable storage, must be provided with an appropriate form of access protection
including authentication and encryption to prevent unauthorised access to their
contents. In addition to passwords, more modern means of authentication such as
Touch-ID or Face ID are also acceptable forms of access protection.
Equipment and media should not be left unattended in public places and portable
devices should be carried as hand luggage. To reduce the opportunities for
unauthorised access, automatic shutdown features should be enabled. Passwords or
other similar security tokens for access to the University’s systems should never be
stored on or with the mobile devices they are protecting or in their carrying cases.
Screens on which sensitive or confidential information is processed or viewed should
be fitted with a privacy filter or be sited in such a way that they cannot be viewed by
unauthorised persons
Export and import controls apply when travelling to certain countries which restrict the
use of encrypted devices. Advice should be taken from IT Support before any travel
arrangements are made.
5. Outsourcing and Third Party Access
5.1. External suppliers
All external suppliers who have access to University IT Systems or data must work
under the supervision of University staff and in accordance with this Policy. A copy of
the Policy will be provided by the system owner to each third-party supplier at the
commencement of any new contract or as this policy changes.
Wherever possible supplier remote access accounts should remain disabled by
default and enabled temporarily, as required to undertake a specific task, at the
request of the system owner or administrator limiting access to agreed timeframes to
reduce the opportunity for unauthorised activities that may lead to data loss or
unintended disruption. Accounts must be immediately deleted when no longer
required. Supplier remote access accounts are made available for the remote
6
IT Security Policy v8
connection to the University network (UniDesktop, the “remote” service (AVD), or
VPN client) and must not be used to log in to servers or to run services.
All activities undertaken by third party suppliers must be agreed in advance.
5.2. Security and confidentiality verification
The University will assess the risk to its information where accessed, stored or
processed by third-party suppliers and, where deemed appropriate because of the
confidentiality, sensitivity or value of the information being disclosed or made
accessible, will require external suppliers of services to satisfy the University through
verification that their security controls, confidentiality practices or contractual clauses
reflect our expected standards. This will be the responsibility of the system owner.
Persons responsible for agreeing maintenance and support contracts will ensure that
the contracts being signed are in accord with the content and spirit of this Policy.
5.3. Service level agreements
Any facilities management, outsourcing or similar company with which the University
may do business must be able to demonstrate compliance with the University’s IT
Security Policy and must enter into binding service level agreements that specify the
performance to be delivered and the remedies available in case of non-compliance.
6. Operations
6.1. Building access control
Areas and offices where sensitive or confidential information is processed will be
given an appropriate level of physical security and access control. Line managers will
provide information on the potential security risks and the measures used to control
them to staff with authorisation to enter such areas. Line managers must continue to
ensure access is appropriate to staff duties and remove access when it is no longer
required. Physical access control activity will be logged.
All employees of the University have a responsibility to safeguard access to locations
where sensitive or confidential information is stored and processed and must not
permit unauthorised persons to enter such areas, including being vigilant to the
activity of ‘tailgating’: an unauthorised person following closely behind an authorised
person to gain entry to a restricted area of a building.
6.2. Operational procedures
System owners must ensure that the procedures for the operation and administration
of the University’s business systems and activities are documented and that those
procedures and documents are regularly reviewed and maintained. It is particularly
important that system owners have robust processes for the approval, creation and
usage monitoring of accounts that provide administrative level privileges; as well as
regular review and removal of accounts when no longer required.
Duties and areas of responsibility must be segregated to reduce the risk and
consequential impact of IT security incidents that might result in financial or other
material damage to the University.
7
IT Security Policy v8
6.3. Procedure for reporting of concerns
System owners must ensure that procedures are established and widely
communicated for the reporting to IT Support of security incidents and suspected
security weaknesses in the University’s IT Systems. They must also ensure that
mechanisms are put in place to monitor and learn from those incidents. Procedures
must be established for the reporting of software malfunctions and faults in the
University’s IT Systems. Faults and malfunctions must be logged and monitored and
timely corrective action taken.
6.4. Change management
Changes to operational procedures, software or hardware must be controlled to
ensure continuing compliance with the requirements of this Policy and must have
management approval.
Development and testing environments for business-critical systems or systems
containing confidential, sensitive or personal information must be separated from
production environments. The migration of software from development to production
will be subject to formal change control procedures. Development and test systems
should utilise artificial or pseudonymised. Where environment segregation is not
feasible, the use of live data may only be permitted where adequate data security
controls are in place, documented, and agreed by the appropriate Data Owner.
Systems should be designed to prevent test data from being accidentally written to
live environments.
Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades and new versions will be
established and suitable tests of the system carried out prior to migration to
operational status.
Procedures will be established to control the development or implementation of all
operational software, which must be approved by the Strategic Projects, Processes
and Infrastructure Board (SPPIB) before introduction and a Privacy Impact
Assessment must be completed and approved by the Records Management Service
for any new system that will involve the processing of personal data. All systems
developed for or procured within the University must follow a formalised development
process.
6.5. Risk assessment
The security risks to the information assets of all system development projects will be
assessed by system owners and access to those assets will be controlled.
6.6. Security Testing
IT systems hosted and maintained by the University will be periodically tested for
known vulnerabilities and weaknesses caused by misconfigured security controls.
Applications hosted and maintained by third party providers, such as cloud Software
as a Service (SaaS) systems, must be tested by the vendor at least annually. Proof
of testing must be provided by the vendor prior to University data being uploaded or
entered into the application.
8
IT Security Policy v8
6.7. Protection from Computer Viruses and other Malware
All University owned IT Systems must have the approved corporate antivirus / anti-
malware product installed and configured to University standards. IT system users
must never disable or attempt to make changes to the anti-virus / anti-malware
protection in place as this can put University systems and information at risk.
Viruses, malware or other hacking tools must not be intentionally installed on
University computers for any purpose. Such software is designed to propagate,
cause disruption, provide unauthorised remote access, and/or transfer sensitive
information outside of the organisation. For testing and teaching needs, installation
must be undertaken within dedicated environments that are fully segregated from
University networks and systems.
Freeware, unlicenced and illegal software, as well as software downloaded from
untrusted sources can lead to the unintentional introduction of malicious software
such as viruses and ransomware. Company Portal (University laptops) and Software
Center (University desktops) provide access to a variety of University applications and
should be used where possible. IT system users should seek support from local
technical teams prior to installing software not available through such portals on
University computers. Files downloaded from the internet carry a risk and should only
be downloaded from trusted sites and scanned with an anti-virus product.
University technical teams will act, where deemed necessary to quarantine or
(physically or logically) remove from the University network any computing device on
which malware is detected in order to contain the threat and undertake investigation
and remediation actions.
7. User Management
7.1. User identification
System owners must ensure that procedures for the registration and deregistration of
users and for managing access to all information systems are established to ensure
that all users’ access rights match their authorisations. These procedures must be
implemented only by suitably trained and authorised staff. All users must have a
unique identifier (user ID) for their personal and sole use for access to all of the
University’s information services, which should authenticate against the institutional
directory where practicable. System owners’ procedures must include mechanisms to
identify and disable unused user accounts in a timely manner.
7.2. ID security
Actions undertaken on IT systems are recorded and are tied to the user ID used. The
user ID must not be used by anyone else and associated passwords must not be
shared with any other person for any reason. Password management procedures
must be put into place to assist both staff and students in complying with best practice
guidelines. Account holders must immediately change their password if they believe
it may be known to others or has become compromised. University technical teams
will take steps to secure a user account which they believe has been compromised.
The password requirements as set out in section 3.1 of the IT Security Procedure
Manual must be adhered to for all forms of passwords including user accounts,
document protection, and system access.
9
IT Security Policy v8
Devices used by staff and students to generate or receive MFA codes must not be
shared with others. Private email accounts used by staff and students to provide a
means to reset University passwords must not be shared by or accessible by others.
7.3. Access control standards
System owners must establish appropriate access control standards for all
information systems which minimise information security risks yet allow the
University’s business activities to be carried out without undue hindrance. Access to
all systems must be authorised by the manager responsible for the system and a
record must be maintained of such authorisations, including the appropriate access
rights or privileges granted.
Procedures must be established for all information systems to ensure that users’
access rights are adjusted appropriately, and in a timely manner, whenever there is a
change in business need, staff change their role, or staff or students leave the
organisation. Users’ access rights must be reviewed at regular intervals and adjusted
or removed as appropriate
System administration accounts that do not authenticate against the institutional
directory must have their password(s) changed if known to persons that no longer
need to access the system.
7.4. Starters, Leavers and Affiliates
Access to University IT Systems is only available to employees during their period of
employment.
Login credentials must not be shared with new members of staff until their first
contracted day.
Line managers must ensure that access to all systems is withdrawn as soon as a staff
member’s employment is terminated or they transfer to a different role internally.
Those requesting Affiliate status must ensure that system access does not extend
beyond the requirements of the Affiliate’s activities. Those requesting Affiliate status
must also ensure that system access is withdrawn as soon as the Affiliate’s
relationship with the University ceases. Upon an individual leaving University
employment or affiliate status University equipment and data must be returned and
this shall be witnessed and recorded by the line manager.
7.5. User training
All those who wish to access the University’s IT Systems must have successfully
completed the training which is deemed appropriate for their role. Advice on what
training is required is available from line managers or direct from the team who
manages each system (e.g. ASIS Support or Agresso Support).
All staff and Affiliate account holders must complete annual mandatory IT Security
Awareness Training. Access to University accounts may be suspended if the account
holder fails to fully complete the training course.
10
IT Security Policy v8
8. System Planning
8.1. Authorisation
New IT Systems relating to teaching, research or the administration of the University,
or enhancements to existing systems, must be authorised by the Strategic Projects,
Processes and Infrastructure Board (SPPIB). The business requirements of all
authorised systems must specify appropriate security controls. The implementation of
new or upgraded software or hardware must be carefully planned and managed, to
ensure that the information security risks associated with such changes are mitigated
using a combination of procedural and technical controls.
8.2. Secure configuration and system hardening
System owners must ensure that all components of the solution are, and remain
configured in a consistently secure manner, including changing all default and publicly
known system credentials and application passwords; removal/disablement of all
unnecessary accounts, software and services; use of vendor secure configuration
guidelines; and undertaking other best practise system hardening techniques.
Removing unused software and accounts will reduce the attack-surface and
consequently the risk of there being a vulnerability that can be exploited by cyber
criminals.
Local firewall software prevents unauthorised network traffic into and out of network
connected computers. All University owned IT Systems must have the approved
corporate local firewall software product installed and configured to University
standards. IT system users must never disable or attempt to make changes to the
local firewall protection in place as this can put University systems and information at
risk.
Insecure protocols that do not encrypt data in transit such Telnet, FTP and HTTP
must not be used for sensitive or confidential information, including passwords as
these pass data across networks in readable ‘clear text’ format.
Administration portals and services must not be exposed to or directly accessible from
the Internet. Administrators will need to be on-campus or use a secure gateway
connection to the University network (UniDesktop, the “remote” service (AVD), or
VPN client) to access administration services.
Inbound access to known administrative ports and shell applications such as SSH will
be blocked by network firewalls. Where administration portals use common web ports
such as HTTPS system owners must prevent access to these from the internet
though changing the port number or configuring IP address whitelisting to trusted,
internal IP addresses only or similar controls as described by the web application
vendor.
8.3. Risk assessment and management
System owners must ensure that the information assets associated with any
proposed new or updated systems are identified, classified and recorded, and a risk
assessment, including, where relevant, a privacy impact assessment, is undertaken to
identify the probability and impact of security failure. Equipment supporting business
systems must be given adequate protection from unauthorised access, environmental
hazards and electrical power failures.
11
IT Security Policy v8
8.4. Access control
System owners must ensure that access controls for all IT Systems are set at
appropriate levels in accordance with the value and classification of the information
assets being protected. Access to operating system commands and application
system functions must be restricted to those persons who are authorised to perform
systems administration or management functions. Use of administrative commands
and privileges should be logged and monitored wherever practicable.
By default, new digital systems will not be directly accessible from the Internet.
8.5. Testing
System owners, in consultation with Computing and Library Services, must ensure
that prior to acceptance, all new or upgraded systems or hardware are tested to
ensure compliance with this Policy, access control standards and requirements for
ongoing information security management. For new applications hosted and
maintained by third party providers, such as cloud Software as a Service (SaaS)
systems proof of security testing must be provided by the vendor prior to University
data being uploaded or entered into the application.
System owners should liaise with Computing and Library Services to discuss options
for ongoing security testing. Testing technologies and processes will be employed in
a prioritised approach that takes in to account the business criticality of the system
and the types of data processed and stored within the system.
9. IT Systems Management
9.1. Staffing
IT Systems must be managed by suitably trained and qualified staff to oversee their
day to day running and to preserve security and integrity in collaboration with
individual system owners. All systems management staff must have relevant training
in IT security issues.
9.2. Access control
System owners must ensure that access controls are maintained at appropriate levels
for all IT Systems and that any changes of access permissions are authorised by the
manager of the system or application. A record of access permissions granted must
be maintained. Access to all IT Systems must use a secure login process and access
may also be limited by time of day or by the location of the initiating terminal, or both.
System owners must ensure that all access to systems containing sensitive or
confidential information is logged to identify potential misuse of systems or
information. They must also ensure that password management procedures are put
into place to ensure the implementation of security procedures and to assist users in
complying with best practice guidelines. Default vendor passwords and account
credentials must be removed on all new IT equipment and systems prior to
deployment.
Remote access to the network must be subject to robust authentication as well as
appropriate levels of security. Virtual Private Network (VPN), wireless, and other
connections to the network are only permitted for authorised users. VPN connections
12
IT Security Policy v8
must not be configured on University computers or across the University network
unless approved. Unauthorised VPN client or VPN server software including browser
add-ins must not be installed on University owned or network connected computers.
University technical teams will take steps to remove VPN software or block VPN
connections.
Access to operating system commands must be restricted to those persons who are
authorised to perform systems administration or management functions. Use of such
commands should be logged and monitored.
9.3. Privileged access accounts
System owners and IT staff may have higher privilege or unrestricted access over
applications and operating systems to carry out their administrative duties. Accounts
with privileged access (including global, domain and local administrator rights) must
not be used for day-to-day activities. Non-privileged accounts should be used as
default and privileged access rights elevation used only as required. Privileged
accounts that provide administrator level access to server and end point operating
systems must not be used to read email or access the internet as malware introduced
through these common infection routes could then execute with unrestricted access
rights. Privilege accounts must provide no more than the rights needed to perform
the operation the account is created for, following the principle of least privilege.
Wherever practicable multifactor authentication (MFA) and privileged access
management (PAM) controls must be applied to Administrator and privileged account
access to systems.
System owners should routinely review accounts with privileged access and remove
access when no longer required.
9.4. Change management
Changes to operational procedures, software or hardware must be controlled to
ensure continuing compliance with the requirements of this Policy and have
management approval. System owners should employ appropriate mechanisms for
the planning, communication and testing of such changes that safeguard the security
of systems.
Development and testing environments for business-critical systems or systems
containing confidential, sensitive or personal information must be separated from
production environments. The migration of software from development to production
will be subject to formal change control procedures. Development and test systems
should utilise artificial or pseudonymised. Where environment segregation is not
feasible, the use of live data may only be permitted where adequate data security
controls are in place, documented, and agreed by the appropriate Data Owner.
Systems should be designed to prevent test data from being accidentally written to
live environments.
Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades and new versions will be
established and suitable tests of the system carried out prior to migration to
operational status. Tests involving live data or periods of parallel running may only be
permitted where adequate controls for the security of the data are in place.
Procedures will be established to control the development or implementation of all
operational software, which must be approved by the Strategic Projects, Processes
13
IT Security Policy v8
and Infrastructure Board (SPPIB) before introduction and a Privacy Impact
Assessment must be completed and approved by the Records Management Service
for any new system that will involve the processing of personal data. All systems
developed for or procured within the University must follow a formalised development
process. The implementation, use or modification of all software on the University’s
business systems must be controlled. All software must be checked before
implementation to protect against malicious code.
Moves, changes and other reconfigurations of users’ network access points will only
be carried out by staff authorised by Computing and Library Services according to
procedures laid down by them.
All changes must be properly tested and authorised before moving to the live
environment.
9.5. Network design
Computing and Library Services must ensure that the University data and telecoms
network is designed and configured to deliver high performance and reliability to meet
the University’s needs whilst providing a high degree of access control and a range of
privilege restrictions.
Appropriately configured security devices must be used to protect the networks
supporting the University’s business systems. Firewalls should be used to provide
segregation at network boundaries, particularly where the data classification of
systems differs. Traffic should be permitted only as required following the principle of
least privilege. Firewall policies are to be reviewed at least every six months and
removed when no longer required.
Proposed system implementations should include a detailed network design diagram
which describes all system components, their role in the solution and the interactions
between them. Designs should be validated, and system components installed in to
the appropriate network for its role.
9.6. Logging
System owners must ensure that where possible security event logs, operational audit
logs and error logs are created, properly reviewed and managed by qualified staff.
System clocks must be regularly synchronised between the University’s various
processing platforms to ensure consistency across log sources.
The logs created by critical servers and security systems will be exported to a
Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system for secure storage,
correlation, and to provide real-time analysis.
9.7. System patching and vulnerability fixes
It’s a recognised cyber security principle that vulnerabilities within a software system
needs to be fixed before a cybercriminal can discover and exploit it.
Vendor provided security patches and updates; or other vendor provided fixes such
as registry and configuration changes or scripts must be applied within the timescales
as set out in section 6.10 of the IT Security Procedure Manual.
System owners must ensure that all system components including hardware,
operating systems and applications that they are responsible for remain within vendor
14
IT Security Policy v8
support and that these are regularly patched with software security updates in order
to reduce the opportunity for the exploit of known vulnerabilities. Out of support
software will never receive security patches or vulnerability fixes for any newly
discovered vulnerabilities regardless of severity.
Operating systems (OS) which are no longer supported by the OS vendor must not be
connected to University networks or used to create, store, process, or share
University information.
University technical teams will take steps to remove computing devices running out of
support applications and OS software from the network.
Systems owners hold a responsibility for being aware of newly released security
patches, key system lifecycle dates (including end of support / end of life); to obtain
written confirmation of vendor support; and to remove or upgrade all software
components before vendor support comes to an end.
9.8. Device Management
University device management platforms provide broad visibility and control of
enrolled IT assets, enhancing the ability to identify system vulnerabilities, providing
assessment against compliance baselines, and permitting rapid remediation actions
against emerging threats. University owned IT systems must be enrolled into the
approved device management platform for that operating system where one exists.
IT system users must never disable or attempt to make changes to the device
management platform in place as this can put University systems and information at
risk.
Staff and affiliates may be required to register their personal devices when used for
accessing University systems in order to collect the minimum information needed to
meet the University’s cyber security certification requirements.
9.9. System decommissioning
System owners should assess at least annually: the ongoing business justification for
the system(s) they are responsible for; and the features, technologies, and
architecture of those systems. This is particularly important for University systems
that are directly accessible from the Internet; and the assessment must include a
review the need for ongoing external exposure and a request for its removal if there’s
no longer a need for it to be accessed from the internet, or if determined that the risk
of external presentation outweighs the benefit of it being accessed from internet.
Where a system is no longer required system owners should liaise with Computing
and Library Services in all instances to agree a decommissioning plan. This ensures
that all elements of the system provisions including servers, storage, firewall rules and
DNS entries are removed as necessary. All associated inventory objects and domain
accounts must also be decommissioned.
Where is a system is still required attention should be given to the continuing lifecycle
of all elements of the system and the functionality they provide. This ensures that
interactive elements of the system, particularly internet facing user logons and search
queries, can be removed if no longer needing, reducing common attack surfaces.
The external presentation of systems to the Internet must be removed as soon as this
is no longer needed.
15
IT Security Policy v8
9.10. Remote data sanitisation
Where a University owned computing device is reported as lost or stolen technical
teams will take steps to protect stored data, including preventing the device from
connecting to all networks (device isolation) and removing all information stored on it
(data sanitisation). All data including any personal data which has been saved on the
University device will be lost. This can be undertaken remotely and without notice.
Acknowledgement
This document draws on copyright information contained in the UCISA Information
Security Toolkit (ISBN 0-9550973-0-4) Edition 2.0, August 2005 and the UCISA
Information Security Management Toolkit, Edition 1.0, March 2015.
16
IT Security Policy v8
POLICY SIGN-OFF AND OWNERSHIP DETAILS
Document name: IT Security Policy
Version Number: 8.0
Equality Impact Assessment: December 2018 (initial)
April 2023 (last review)
Approved by: SLT
Effective from: 30 September 2025
Date for Review: May 2026
Author: Information Security Manager
Owner (if different from above):
Document Location: https://www.hud.ac.uk/media/policydocuments/IT-
Security-Policy.pdf
Compliance Checks: Results of annual and/or other Security Testing
(including penetration testing).
• IT security Procedure Manual
Related Policies/Procedures:
• Computing Regulations
• Using Your Own Device Policy
• Data Protection Policy
• Research Integrity and Ethics Policy
• Retention and Disposal Schedule
• Guidance on Managing Emails
REVISION HISTORY
Version Date Revision Author
description/Summary of
changes
V1.0 October First draft using Policy Head of BQP
2017 Framework. Minor drafting
updates.
V2.0 December Additional links to policies added Information Security Manager
2018 (DP Act 2018 and Uni DP policy)
Working practices section -
applies to mobile devices as well
as desktops
Clarity on email attachments
that should be password
protected (external only)
References to Phishing
17
IT Security Policy v8
Inclusion of removable media in
disposal section
Privacy filter explicitly mentioned
in travelling section
PIAs now checked by Records
Management instead of DP
officer
V3.0 Feb 2020 Updated links Information Security Manager
Reference to Touch-ID and
Face-ID in travelling section
Replaced reference to ITSG with
SPPIB
V4.0 Mar 2021 Adjustments to text. Information Security Manager
Addition of user types and
cloud-based environments to
scope.
Addition of email auto-
forwarding controls and USB
storage avoidance to 3.2.
Addition of MFA to 4.2.
Addition of supplier controls to
5.1
Addition of Software to 6.4.
Explicit reference to recording
actions by user IDs 7.2.
Addition of 6.6 – Security
Testing
Addition of new 9.3 – Privileged
Access Accounts
Addition of network design and
firewall usage to 9.5.
Addition of log export to SIEM to
9.6.
Addition of 9.7 to include
systems patching requirement.
V5.0 Mar 2022 Minor adjustments to text. Information Security Manager
Change to use of OneDrive
Client on staff owned computers
4.2
Addition of Wi-Fi guidance 4.2
Addition of new starter password
distribution guidance 7.4
Addition of 9.8 – University
Device Management
18
IT Security Policy v8
V6.0 Mar 2023 Minor adjustments to text. Information Security Manager
System owner processes for
account management 6.2
Addition of Secure Configuration
and System Hardening 8.2
Reinforcement of system
owner responsibilities in 9.7
Include BYOD registration
statement to 9.8
V7.0 Apr 2024 Addition of reference to Cloud Information Security Manager
system to 3.9
Addition of generative artificial
intelligence (AI) guidance 3.12
Clarify usage restrictions for
supplier RAAs 5.1
Addition of employee
responsibilities for physical
security 6.1
Addition of 6.7 - Protection from
Computer Viruses and Malware
Update to password and MFA
requirements 7.2
System owner requirement to
review and change system
passwords 7.3
Addition of requirement for local
firewall on University computer
systems 8.2
Addition of VPN statement 9.2
Reinforce operating system
element of 9.7. including steps
to remove these from network.
Addition of system
decommissioning 9.9
V8.0 Jun 2025 Updated Policy links where Information Security Manager
required
Addition of new paragraph to 3.5
relating to Cloud storage
application installs
Rewording of 6.4 and 9.4 to
provide clearer definition of
segregation of Test and Live
data requirements
7.5 – Added that user accounts
may be suspended for account
19
IT Security Policy v8
holders that do not fully
complete their IT Security
Awareness Training.
Additions to 8.2 to increase
system hardening practices and
reduce attack surface.
Retitle of 9.7 to better align to
updated Cyber Essentials
terminology.
Reinforce end of support
applications element of 9.7.
including steps to remove these
from network
9.8 – Addition prohibits the
device user from disabling or
making changes mobile device
management (MDM) systems
placed on devices
New Section 9.10 highlights the
ability to undertake remote wipe
of University owned devices
20
IT Security Policy v8